docs: DOC-279: Access token page (#7137)
heartexlabs/label-studio: docs/source/guide/access_tokens.md

---
title: Access tokens
short: Access tokens
tier: all
type: guide
order: 381
order_enterprise: 359
meta_title: Access tokens
meta_description: Access tokens to interact with the Label Studio API and SDK. 
section: "Manage Your Organization"
date: 2025-02-18 12:03:59
---

> Label Studio has personal access tokens and legacy tokens. The options available to users are set at the Organization level. See BLANK below. 

Reviewer: Guessing "BLANK" here was supposed to be replaced?

Author: Fixed

# API key is available at the Account & Settings > Access Tokens page in Label Studio UI
API_KEY = 'd6f8a2622d39e9d89ff0dfef1a80ad877f4ee9e3'

# Import the SDK and the client module
from label_studio_sdk.client import LabelStudio

# Connect to the Label Studio API and check the connection
ls = LabelStudio(base_url=LABEL_STUDIO_URL, api_key=API_KEY)

```

### HTTP API

If you are interacting directly via HTTP, the personal access token functions similarly to a JWT refresh token.

You must use your personal access token (refresh token) to generate a short-lived access token. This access token is then used for API authentication.

To generate this access token, make a POST request with your personal access token in the JSON body. For example:
     
```bash
curl -X POST <your-label-studio-url>/api/token/refresh \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d '{"refresh": "your-personal-access-token"}'
```

In response, you will receive a JSON payload similar to:
     
```json
{
    "access": "your-new-access-token"
}
```

Use this access token by including it in your API requests via the Authorization header:
     
```http
Authorization: Bearer your-new-access-token
```

> When that access token expires you’ll get a 401 response, and will need to use your personal access token again to acquire a new one. This adds an extra layer of security.

Author: Need to add how quickly they expire.

> When that access token expires you’ll get a 401 response, and will need to use your personal access token again to acquire a new one. This adds an extra layer of security.

Reviewer: Could maybe add a note here that they can check this manually if they want? E.g. in python this would be:
```{python}
# pip install pyjwt
from datetime import datetime, timezone
import jwt

decoded = jwt.decode(token)
exp = decoded.get("exp")
token_is_expired = (exp <= datetime.now(timezone.utc).timestamp())
```
I guess most people using python are likely to be using the sdk? But idk, maybe a helpful reference?

Author: Added

## Access token settings for orgs

The options that are available to users depend on options selected at the organization level. 

From the **Organization** page, click **Access Token Settings** in the upper right. 

<div class="enterprise-only">

!!! note
    The **Organization** page is only available to users in the Admin and Owner role.

</div>

From here you can enable and disable token types. 

> * When a certain token type is disabled, existing tokens are not be able to authenticate to the Label Studio platform. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When a certain token type is disabled, existing tokens will not be able to authenticate to the Label Studio platform. 
```

* Use the Personal Access Token Time-to-Live to set an expiration date for personal access tokens. This is only available for Label Studio Enterprise users. 

![Screenshot of Access Token window](/images/admin/token-settings.png)

## Finding your access token

> You can find your access token from your [**Account & Settings** page](user_account) (click your username in the upper right in Label Studio). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create/manage your access token from your [**Account & Settings** page](user_account) (click your username in the upper right in Label Studio). 
```

---
title: Access tokens
short: Access tokens
tier: all
type: guide
order: 381
order_enterprise: 359
meta_title: Access tokens
meta_description: Access tokens to interact with the Label Studio API and SDK. 
section: "Manage Your Organization"
date: 2025-02-18 12:03:59
---

Label Studio has personal access tokens and legacy tokens. The options available to users are set at the Organization level. Se [Access settings for orgs](#Access-token-settings-for-orgs) below. 

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Personal Access Token</th>
    <th>Legacy Token</th>
  </tr>
  </thead>
  <tr>
  <td>
    <ul>
        <li>Have a TTL that can be set at the org level. (Label Studio Enterprise only)

>         <li>Have expirations dates

Reviewer 2: Do these need to be 2 separate line items?

Author: How does it work for LSO? I know in LSO you can't set the TTL, so I just assumed they have an expiration date. Is that not correct?

Reviewer: So, they have an expiration date technically, but it's purposely set so far in the future that it doesn't really matter. I'd say let's just get rid of anything saying that LSO tokens expire

Author: Ok - removed that line

        <li>Are only visible to users once
        <li>Can be manually revoked
        <li>Require extra steps when used with HTTP API
        <li>Only need to be set once when used SDK
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <ul>
        <li>Does not expire
        <li>Remains listed and available in your account settings
        <li>Can be manually revoked
        <li>Do not need to be refreshed with used with HTTP API
        <li>Only need to be set once when used SDK
    </ul>
  </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Personal access tokens and the API

### SDK

Personal access tokens can be used with the Python SDK the same way in which legacy tokens were set:

```python
# Define the URL where Label Studio is accessible and the API key for your user account
LABEL_STUDIO_URL = 'http://localhost:8080'
# API key is available at the Account & Settings > Access Tokens page in Label Studio UI
API_KEY = 'd6f8a2622d39e9d89ff0dfef1a80ad877f4ee9e3'

# Import the SDK and the client module
from label_studio_sdk.client import LabelStudio

# Connect to the Label Studio API and check the connection
ls = LabelStudio(base_url=LABEL_STUDIO_URL, api_key=API_KEY)

```

### HTTP API

> If you are interacting directly via HTTP, the personal access token functions similarly to a JWT refresh token.

Reviewer 2: Isnt that _exactly_ what it is?

Author: I saw some comments in the TDD indicating that we weren't fully rolling out JWT yet, but maybe I misunderstood.

Author: Ok - fixed. I looked at the TDD again and I misunderstood
